# Intelligent Telegram Bot using Python & Tensorflow
A Telegram Bot is integrated with a convolutional neural network to classify images into one of the following categories:

Plane, Car, Bird, Cat, Deer, Dog, Frog, Horse, Ship and Truck

The bot was built using Python, Tensorflow and the Telegram Bot API.

## Connecting to the Telegram Server
- The bot connects to the Telegram server using the Bot API Token.
- This Token was generated by the BotFather (Telegram Chat).
- The token is stored in the token.txt for security reasons.
- Application.builder method allows the bot to communicate with the Telegram server.

## Functions in the Telegram Bot
- Start function: Sends a welcome message to the user.
- Train function: Trains the CNN model using the CIFAR-10 dataset in a seperate thread so the bot remains responsive.
- Help function: Shows the commands that you can use.
- Stop function: Stops the conversation with the Telegram bot.

- Image Classification: Processed with OpenCV and predicted using the trained CNN model.

## Convolutional Neural Network (CNN)
- A CNN is a type of deep learning model used for image and video recognition.
- It uses layers (convolutional, pooling) to extract and learn spatial features from the images.

The CNN in this project was built with the following architecture:
- Convolutional Layers: Extracts features from the input image.
- Pooling Layers: Downsamples the image and reduces complexity
- Dense Layers: Fully connected layers for classification.

## Saving the Trained Model
- Model saved using .keras so it can be re-used.
- .keras is compatible with Tensorflow

## Bot Performance
- Performed well when classifying images of cars
- Struggled to classify images of dogs and planes
- The CNN model (trained on CIFAR-10) may have limitations due to a small dataset to work from.

## Future Improvements
- Training the model with a larger and more diverse dataset.
- Add commands for the user so they can see the training accuracy and loss.
- Deploying the bot using a GPU for faster predictions

- A GPU (Graphics Processing Unit) more suited than CPUs when it comes to rendering high-quality graphics
- To do this I would need to use a cloud-platform which has GPU support such as AWS EC2 or Azure